1
FALL 2024
LSP 110: DISCOVER CHICAGO
COMMON HOUR
SYLLABUS
Chicago Quarter Mentor
NAME: Emma Senanayake
PHONE: 715-571-3069
EMAIL: esenanay@depaul.edu
Staff Professional
NAME: Katie Sullivan
DEPARTMENT: Division of
Mission and Ministry
TITLE: Assistant Director
OFFICE LOCATION: LPSC Suite
311
PHONE: 773-325-4490
EMAIL: ksulli47@depaul.edu
Virtual Office Hours &
Appointments
If you need assistance, support or
have questions, please feel free
to contact one of us to set-up a
day/time.
About the Syllabus
You have a copy of this syllabus
and you can also find it on D2L.
We expect you to read the
syllabus completely. If you have
any questions regarding anything
in the syllabus, please reach out
and ask for more information.
Welcome to Common Hour! We are excited to welcome you into our
community. Common Hour is designed to support you as you transition from
high school to college and is taught by a current DePaul student and a DePaul
University Staff Member or Graduate Student. We are here to support you as
you navigate your DePaul experience. Common Hour counts for 20% of your
Chicago Quarter grade.
Common Hour will focus on three big ideas: understanding and believing in
yourself, connecting to DePaul, and transitioning to college.
More specifically, when Common Hour is over you will be able to:
1. Reflect on your current skills, abilities, and interests and recognize the everchanging nature of each.
2. Describe principles and strategies for developing skills that contribute to
your academic success.
3. Describe principles and strategies for exploring your interests.
4. Define and apply core concepts of diversity.
5. Discuss and reflect on your social identities and related experiences.
6. Connect the principles of the Vincentian mission to your life today as a
DePaul student.
7. Associate caring for yourself with your academic success and personal
wellness and describe strategies for caring for yourself.
8. Associate the Vincentian mission with how you care for yourself and for
others in the DePaul community.
9. Discuss the value of community as a network of support and describe
methods for building your own community at DePaul.
10. Compare your role as a student in high school to the role you now have as a
college student.
11. Understand the transition from high school to college is often challenging
both academically and socially.
12. Recall resources on campus and describe resources you anticipate using
during your time at DePaul.
Your experiences and what you learn in Common Hour is intended to support
you for the duration of your DePaul experience. When you look back on
Common Hour these are the things we hope you remember:
 Your skills, abilities, interests will change and grow during your time at
DePaul.
 Your identities matter and are an important aspect of both your experience
and the DePaul community.
 You are a part of a DePaul’s Vincentian community and caring for yourself
and others is necessary.
 Building a small community of support within the larger community at
DePaul is critical to your success inside and outside of the classroom.
 Your transition to college will present new and different challenges.
OUR CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENT & POLICIES
2
We expect you to be an active participant in our class and that means contributing to the classroom by completing
assigned readings, assignments, and sharing your experience and reflection. Your contributions are important and we
want to hear your perspective, ideas, and voice in our classroom community. We will do our best to provide ongoing
feedback on assignments throughout the quarter, but please seek out additional feedback and assistance
independently whenever you feel it would be helpful. We will serve as a guide during Common Hour and will provide
relevant content and context as a way to support you in your first quarter here at DePaul. We will go over specific
classroom guidelines during our first Common Hour. We will use D2L as the official course site and this is where you
turn your assignments unless we discussed something different in class. If you need help using D2L, please ask us.
Attendance & Participation
Your attendance in Common Hour is required. If you are unable to attend class, please contact us in advance.
Your active participation in Common Hour will contribute to our classroom community. Your thoughts, ideas,
and perspective are welcome and necessary. We all learn from one another when everyone contributes to
the class. Up to 5 participation points can be earned for every class. Participation can be through your verbal
responses and interactions with your classmates and it can also be through your nonverbal engagement in
the classroom. Participation points cannot be earned if you are not in class. Assignments are still due on time
even if you are absent.
Late Work
All assignments are expected to be turned in on time, even when you are absent from class. If you are
confused about a deadline or where to turn something in, please talk to us. Points will be deducted from any
late assignments. Assignments turned in more than a week late will not be accepted and will result in a zero.
Academic Integrity
DePaul University is a learning community that fosters the pursuit of knowledge and the transmission of
ideas within a context that emphasizes a sense of responsibility for oneself, for others and for society at
large. Violations of academic integrity, in any of their forms, are, therefore, detrimental to the values of
DePaul, to the students' own development as responsible members of society, and to the pursuit of
knowledge and the transmission of ideas. Violations include but are not limited to the following categories:
cheating; plagiarism; fabrication; falsification or sabotage of research data; destruction or misuse of the
university's academic resources; alteration or falsification of academic records; and academic misconduct.
Conduct that is punishable under the Academic Integrity Policy could result in additional disciplinary actions
by other university officials and possible civil or criminal prosecution. Please refer to your Student Handbook
or visit Academic Integrity at DePaul University (http://academicintegrity.depaul.edu) for further details.
Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
Students seeking disability-related accommodations are required to register with DePaul's Center for
Students with Disabilities (CSD) enabling you to access accommodations and support services to assist your
success. Whether courses are held on campus or online, the CSD continues to provide accommodations and
services for students.
During Fall Quarter 2024, the most efficient way to contact the CSD office is by email or by phone (see
contact info below).
There are two office locations:
3
Loop Campus - Lewis Center #1420 - (312) 362-8002
Lincoln Park Campus - Student Center #370 - (773) 325-1677
Students can also email the office at csd@depaul.edu
Students who are registered with the Center for Students with Disabilities are also invited to contact the CQ
faculty member, Staff Professional, or CQM to privately discuss how they may assist in facilitating the
accommodations you will use in this course. This is best done early in the term. Our conversation will remain
confidential to the extent possible.
COMMON HOUR ASSIGNMENTS & POINTS
Pre-Quarter Reflection Paper 20 points
Campus Connect Assignment N/A
Community Connection Assignment N/A
Metacognition Assignment 20 points
Explore Your Purpose 75 points total
1. Career Exploration Assignment (25 points)
2. Future You Plan (50 points)
Participation & Attendance 50 points (5 points/class meeting)
1:1 Meeting with Chicago Quarter Mentor 20 points
TOTAL: 185 points
REFLECTION & REFLECTIVE WRITING ASSIGNMENTS
Many Common Hour assignments require you to reflect and write reflection responses and essays. Reflection is
important because it allows us to process past experiences and prior learning and make some sort of sense (or
meaning) of these experiences. By reflecting on our past we our able to move forward thoughtfully.
Learn more about reflective writing in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QoI67VeE3ds
Read an example of reflective writing here: http://www.rookiemag.com/2014/03/the-art-of-waiting/
COMMON HOUR SCHEDULE
The following outlines our schedule for each Common Hour along with the assignments that are due each time we
meet. If you have any questions about the schedule or assignments, please get in touch with us. We are here to help!
Date Topic Assignment Due
(at the start of class)
Immersion Week
8/26
Welcome to Common Hour
Submit Pre-Quarter Reflection
Assignment onto course D2L page
Due 8/29
Immersion Week
8/26 Community @ DePaul, Part I None
4
Immersion Week
8/29 Community @ DePaul, Part II None
Week One
9/10
Wellness
Start identifying a campus event to
attend for the Explore Your
Purpose: Community Connection
Assignment
Sign up for 1:1 mtg with Emma
Complete by 10/1
Week Two
9/17 Academic Success, Part I None
Week Three
9/24
Academic Success, Part II
Complete the Time Management
Weekly Scheduling Handout
Due 9/24
Submit the Metacognition
Assignment onto D2L page
Due 9/24
Week Four
10/1
Academic Planning & Registration
Complete the Campus Connect
Tasks Assignment
Due 10/1
Complete the Explore Your
Purpose: Community Connection
Assignment
Due 10/1
Week Five
10/8 Explore Your Purpose, Part I None
Week Six
10/15
Explore Your Purpose, Part II
Submit the Explore Your Purpose:
Career Exploration Assignment
onto D2L
Due 10/15
Week Seven
10/22
Wrapping Up
Submit Explore Your Purpose:
Future You Plan onto D2L
Due 10/22